okay folks welcome back okay this
teaching is going to be specifically
dealing with accumulation manipulation
and distribution
okay the ICT concepts used in this
module the ICT power of three importance
of developing anticipatory price skills
engineering liquidity in the market
neutralizing liquidity in the market
market making and pairing of orders what
accumulation looks like in bull and bear
conditions where does manipulation occur
in bull and bear conditions what
distribution looks like in bull and bear
conditions all right so we're looking at
a crude depiction of a open high low
close bar and for the purposes of this
teaching every individual bar or candle
it's going to be referred to as a daily
range or daily bar okay now everything
I'm going to suggest to you here is
applicable to every time measurement
okay I know is every time interval if it
can be charted this same phenomenon or
concept can be applied to it so
regardless of what time frame you can
pull up and form it into a chart as long
as you have a beginning time the highest
value to the lowest value and an ending
in terms of measuring time this concept
is applicable okay
but for the sake of our discussion here
and for something you can practice and
look for a few times a week
the ICT power 3 is basically a concept
of looking for accumulation waiting for
manipulation and then looking for a
period of distribution now I look at
candlesticks because it helps to be able
to see after many years of looking at
price action it's very hard on your eyes
as long as I've been doing it staring at
spending lots of time in charts both on
a screen and on paper I can see that my
my eyesight has diminished over the
years one of the benefits of knowing
what you're looking for if spending far
less time in the charts then most
traders that like me and before me we
spent a lot of time researching and
looking at things so I gravitate towards
candlesticks because it's easier on the
eye not that there's any magic behind it
but the same concept is seen here with a
bullish open high low close bar to the
left is comparable to what you would see
any bullish close candlestick much much
easier to see by staring at that versus
that little tick to the left or the
little tick to the right that
distinguishes the open and close on
individual candles or bar okay so back
to our discussion using the open high
low close bar it's gonna be a lot easier
for me to describe the phenomenon that
makes up my ICT power 3 and the
origination behind this idea was
inspired by my mentor Larry Williams he
made a point in one of his lectures they
ended up repeating several times for a
number of years but he made a point of
making a remark about he wished he knew
how the traders or who the traders were
that could be buying below the open or
selling above the clothes on bullish or
up close days and I took that as a
personal challenge and I spent of the
first quarter of my 25 years mastering
just that concept because I felt that
it was enough for me to work towards
cracking that code if you will and I
think I've done it I've thought of other
people so I know that it's something
that is real it's tangible it can be
repeated not only in my own results but
other people that have learned from me
but it all hinges on the reference point
that starts our time integral and again
we're referring to every bar or open
high low close bar depiction in my
diagrams as a representation of one
daily bar okay so a full 24-hour period
it does not matter that if it's Forex or
commodities or bonds or whatever it is
if it's a market and it can be measured
in time intervals the highest value the
lowest value a time at which it starts
trading in it time and ends trading you
only need is for reference points so the
open high low and close is all we're
concerning yourself with here now the
first of the four is the opening price
now for definition terms this is the
initial value price prior to any
imbalance and I'll talk more about that
as we go the closing price is the ending
value price post price imbalance okay
the portion it makes up the range
between the open and closed is referred
to as range expansion and this is a
dynamic price imbalance now this can be
a bullish or bearish imbalance relative
to the open but for example sake our
first one is going to be referring to a
bullish up close so this would be a
bullish range expansion or a dynamic
price imbalance of a lot more movement
to the upside seeking a higher price
above the initial value price of the
opening price in layman's terms we're
looking for a bullish close okay
as far as it goes in terms of
accumulation manipulation and
distribution or power three the first
thing we have to determine is what is
accumulating now if we're bullish on the
marketplace we would be looking for
accumulation in the form of long
positions building up it's gonna be
around that opening price and I'll talk
more about the opening pricing in future
tutorials but the opening price just
above it or below it no more bullish
that's where Long's are accumulated now
who's accumulating there's long
positions smart money when we're bullish
and we're anticipating a bullish range
expansion to the upside okay or higher
close we would be hunting a manipulation
cycle immediately after the opening
price so on a daily range that opening
price if we're bullish we want to be
buying at that opening price or below it
ideally why would we want to be buying
below the opening price we're more
bullish because the market makers are
going to be looking to engineer short
liquidity what does that mean if a
market breaks quickly below an old low
there are traders that look to be a
breakout entry so they'll look to sell
short on a stop this engineering forces
liquidity in the market place to sell at
a very very low price that run below an
old low or a quick sudden movement will
entice triggers that are on the
sidelines just watching price and you
know what that feels like if you watch
the lower timeframe charts any sudden
moves our your heart starts to have
palpitations you get excited you think
it's gonna keep going lower what happens
you take debate you go in there and you
sell short in the market stops on a dime
reverses and goes north immediately
below the opening price on a daily range
when it's bullish this initial drop down
is very significant because it's going
to engineer willing parties to sell
short
that selling short will flood the market
with the counterparties to smart money
wanting to buy it at a deep deep
discount the other form of manipulation
that takes place when it's bullish is
neutralizing long liquidity that means
there's individuals it's probably
already long or just recently bought
near the opening price in the drop down
below the opening price will upset their
long position in other words it'll just
run their stop not to engineer them into
a new lower entry but to knock them out
of an initially well-placed position so
we're seeing two conditions they're
happening at the same time the opening
price and below it when more bullish is
knocking individuals out that's right
that would otherwise be profitable the
market rallies and it's also inducing or
engineering of short-term sentiment
shift to bearishness by running
short-term lows not only would we take
out long holders with their sell stocks
but traders that want to sell short on a
stop they would be in they would be
placed in on the market on the wrong
side and while we're selling short in
otherwise bullish market so finally as
we interpret this the manipulation is
we're looking how the market makers pair
orders by pairing these sell stops with
smart money buying interest we can see
the manipulation cycle as it really is a
run below the opening to accumulate long
positions before the big up move and
finally the distribution cycle where
smart money pairs its long exits selling
out of their lungs with pending buy
interest now that pending buy interest
is going to be in the form of buying
above an old high that would be a
breakout artists idea they're gonna want
to break out above a previous high and
they would view that as strength buying
string
while smart money will look to sell
their long position to those breakout
artists that want to buy above an old
high or those individuals that would
probably try to sell short intraday
maybe have a buy stop above intraday
high smart money would look to run
through that intraday high and sell it
to those by stops so their long and
exits would be paired with a short term
intraday swing high if we seen a nice
little retracement lower intraday before
the close that's where an area of
distribution would come in so we're
looking at a reverse idea here the open
high low close with a down close and
again this representation is a crude
depiction of a daily open high low close
bar and we could see that same thing in
the form of a bearish closed candle much
easier on the eye but we're gonna take
our focus back to the open high low
close bar and again the opening price
much like we just said but just for
completeness sake it is the initial
value price prior to any imbalance the
closing price is the ending value price
of that time interval that you're
measuring in other words what time frame
you're looking at if it's daily it's the
ending value for the daily range post or
after the price imbalance in Lourdes the
movement it took place between the open
and where it's now closing and we have
the range expansion cycle that is
basically dynamic price and balance so
between the opening price and the
closing price when we're bearish this is
what we would be expecting or
anticipating in price became a lower
close now in the form of power three
what is accumulating well from the
opening when we're bearish short
positions are building up and who's
building up short positions smart money
at the open
price or just above the opening price
when we're bearish we would be
anticipating manipulation and what form
of manipulation will we expect to see
engineering long liquidity no words
we're looking for a quick sudden
movement higher to entice breakout
artists that want to buy want to break
out and they would be placed in on the
wrong side of the marketplace another
form of men
population this would be neutralizing
short liquidity in other words those
individuals that would already be short
in the marketplace that would otherwise
profit from the future coming decline
they are knocked out by having thereby
stops tripped so they're neutralized in
their short position and their short
position being neutralized is a buy stop
so that buys thought that hits the
market as a market order smart money
will sell to their willing buy stop
somewhere so if the market trades up to
your buy stop that buy stop becomes a
market order to buy at the market smart
money will be counterparty to that they
will sell to those buy stops but their
sell position is to ride it lower and
make money manipulation and it's true a
sense is in this form when we're bearish
at the opening price or above it by
stops are being paired with short
interest on the form of smart money and
finally at the end of the day the
distribution cycle is seen where smart
money pairs it's short exits or covering
with pending sell interest in other
words smart money's going to be short in
together of short positions they have to
buy it back and they will be targeting
some old low what would be resting below
an old low sell stops those sell stops
once they're triggered they become
market orders to sell to market place
which floods the market with sellers and
the best time to cover a short is when
there's a flood of sellers in the
marketplace willing to sell at a low
price and this would be the distribution
cycle of the daily range okay so what
does accumulation look like in a full
condition or when it's bullish it's not
important we zoom in here and see any of
the details I just wanted you to see the
overall characteristics and the green
shaded area you can see that there's a
consolidation around the opening price
and that consolidation leads way to a
decline which gives us the framework for
what does this manipulation look like in
a bull condition well this is what
manipulation looks like right before the
March starts to trade higher
after a consolidation when the
accumulation of lungs are being made the
problem is you see that decline below
that green shaded area as weakness and
who would be wanting to buy ahead of
that Smart Money traders okay
they have very deep pockets and the
market has a tendency of creating this
fake move okay we're in choices or
induces the opposite mindset or
sentiment this drop down out of that
consolidation when we're overall bullish
is manipulation it's knocking out
short-term lows so anyone that's longer
knocked out we can't for the profit from
the up move and it's also putting
traders in on a breakout short and
they're gonna be on the wrong side of
the marketplace and if finally at the
highs it a day we have our distribution
where the smart money exits their long
positions by selling above an old high
whereby stocks would be resting so
there's buy stocks would be hit floods
the market with buy stops buyers at a
higher price smart money's going to sell
their long positions to higher buying
interest traders in the form of their
buy stocks being tagged okay in what
does accumulation look like in a bare
condition we have a consolidation and
price moves higher which would be the
manipulation now if you look at the left
side of the chart you see a double top
that's exactly where what buy stocks
would resign okay lesser informed
traders would have their buy stocks
resting above that it would view that as
a stiff resistance price point and those
levels are too clean
the market will in fact want to go
through their probe it for buy stops
those buy stocks are gonna trigger
anyone that's short is now allowed to be
profitable and the move going lower so
they're neutralizing their shorts by
hitting their box tops also breakout
artists let's see that equal high to the
left of the chart and the consolidation
that move out of that they would be
buying that on a break
or trying to buy strength in their eyes
both are incorrect and what we're
actually seeing is a market driving
higher to pair traders to buy higher or
at a high price and short sellers on the
smart money camp they're going to be
selling short to those individuals that
want to buy a high price to make a
profit as the market moves eventually
lower towards the end of the day we see
the distribution cycle come in we're
short holders in the smart money camp
we're going to be looking to collapse
their short positions to get have a
short position you have to buy it back
you have to look for an area to run
below old lows you look at the original
consolidation 20 pips below that that's
what we see the load a form it's exactly
where smart money would be collapsing
their short positions for a day trade
and we see the ending cycle their
distribution smart money collapsing
their short and a form of buying it back
at an area where sellers below the
market would be interested in selling
overall if you understand this concept
and there's lots more of information
that's coming weigh in by way of my
tutorials you can look at the market
place like this and see the original
consolidation here in the green market
reaches down below the consolidation
into an area of liquidity which is 10
pips below equal lows there sell stocks
are triggered where smart money would be
buying once those sell stops are tripped
they're buying below the day the market
rallies up we have an expansion move or
reins expansion up into a move of
running 20 pips above the old high and
your distribution cycle goes into the
marketplace and there's a complete daily
range using the power 3 concept that
I've outlined here so hopefully you
found this teaching insightful there'll
be more built on this with the future
tutorials and until next time I wish you
good luck and good trading